Bryan White Foundation was founded in January 2016 against the background of an unprecedented rise in youth unemployment, poverty and other negatively impacting vices in Uganda.

It was against that background that our founder, Mr. Bryan White Kirumira being on the frontline with such young people decided to create this foundation that would incorporate ground-breaking, hard-hitting and innovative projects /workshops to not just tackle the problem but to provide a credible solution.

By listening to the youths, Mr Bryan White created youth centric and holistic intervention programmes that have not only empowered young people but to date but have transformed their lives in many positive ways.

To this end many of the young people we work with are no longer within the (not in education, training or employment) category and many have become successful in achieving their life goals and ambitions.

We firmly believe that all young people in the community should be given a chance to improve themselves to the best of their abilities and all entitled to dignity, respect and justice.

 Obviously being an equal opportunities foundation we aim to include all members of the wider community. We hold that all people are equal under the law respective of race, ability, gender, sexual orientation or religion.


Our vision:

To be an engine of conspicuous positive impact on Uganda’s special interest groups for sustainable social and economic progress.

Our mission:

To create employment opportunities for special interest groups through production, provision of micro capital and improvement in education and health for improved quality of life.

Our objectives:

To mobilize and empower the youth under one forum, offering them a bigger platform to stand out in all communities.
To empower women so that they can be able to uplift their well beings and incomes with a target of bridging the income gap.
To eradicate poverty with strategies that boost skills and talents.
To fund projects that can enhance household incomes.
To sensitise and change mindsets with regards to resource utilization.

website:

https://bryanwhitefoundation.org/